<!-- dash: #icon | Element | ###:Section -->



## Icon Element - #icon{}

The Icon element produces an HTML tag that produces an icon from an icon font,
with built-in support for the following:

* [FontAwesome](https://fontawesome.com)
* [LineAwesome](https://icons8.com/line-awesome)
* [Google's Material Icon Font](https://fonts.google.com/icons)
* [Bootstrap Icons](https://icons.getbootstrap.com/)

You can also use a custom icon font generated by [IcoMoon](https://icomoon.io/app)

### Configuration

Your application's app.config file can define a number of default font options.

* `default_icon_prefix` - which provider are you using, or if you're using a custom icon font. Examples: `fa`, `bi`, `la`, `material`, `icon`
* `default_icon_version` - Which major version of the icon are you using (for example, for Fontawesome 5.15, specify `5`).
* `default_icon_css` - The default CSS file you want to use for the icon font.
* `default_icon_css_sha` - The SHA hash to be passed to the `integrity` attribute of the `link` tag importing the CSS file. This can be left blank to bypass the `integrity` verification.
* `default_icon_js` - If the icon system has a JS file, import that file.
* `default_icon_js_sha` - The SHA hash of the JS file for the `integrity` attribute (just like with the CSS option above)

### Auto-including external scripts

If you don't want to download the necessary assets (icon fonts, CSS, and/or JS) locally into your application, you don't have to. The above providers all supply default scripts, and those can be imported into your templates with `[[[element_icon:scripts()]]]`. For the most part, these are using [cdnjs.com](https://cdnjs.com) or the official CDN (like Google's CDN for Material).


### Usage

The below 4 examples all specify the classic cog/gear/settings icon:

```erlang
%% FontAwesome
#icon{
	prefix=fa,
	icon=cog
}.

%% LineAwesome
#icon{
	prefix=la,
	icon=cog
}.

%% Google Material
#icon{
	prefix=material,
	icon=settings
}.

%% Bootstrap Icons
#icon{
	prefix=bi,
	icon=gear
}.

```

If you're using an IcoMoon-generated font, this would do the above (depending on which cog icon you've chosen):

```erlang
%% IcoMoon-generated Icons
#icon{
	prefix=icon,
	icon=cog
}.
```

### Attributes

* `icon` (atom | string | binary)` - Which icon identifier do you want to use? This does not require the provider's prefix: for example, use `cog` instead of `fa-cog` (for the FontAwesome icon of the same name)

* `prefix` (atom) - Which provider of optionalicon (and will be the prefix of the generated class). Valid values are `fa`, `bi`, `la`, `material`, `fi`, and `icon`.  If you use something custom that wants `foo-` prefix, then specify `foo`.  **If not provided, the default from the config will be used**

* `version` (integer) (optional) - Which *major* version of the icon set are you using? For example, for FontAwesome 4.7, specify `4`, for `6.1.2`, specify `6`.  **If not provided, the default from the config will be used**

* `type` (atom | binary | string) (optional) - Which "type" of the icon do you want to show? For FontAwesome, this can be `solid`, `light`, `thin`,`duotone` and `regular`. For Google's Material, this can be `rounded`, `sharp,` or `outline`.

* `size` (atom | binary | string | integer) (optional) - What size do you want this icon to be?  The sizing rules are currently based on (FontAwesome's sizes](https://fontawesome.com/docs/web/style/size), however, there are a pile of valid options and variations. Examples: `large`=`lg`, `xxs`=`2xs`, `9`=`9x`,....

### See Also

 * [base element](./element_base.md)
 * [image element](./image.md)
 * [template element](./template.md)
